Combinations are pretty much the same as permutations or variations but in combinations we don't care
about the order in peregrinations we cared about the order of events.
So to make things absolutely clear permutation A and B is different than permutation B.
And they that combination A and B is the same a combination of B and day.
So let me show you an example.
Imagine that I have set A that is containing numbers 1 2 and 3 and I want all subsets that have two
elements.
This is pretty simple.
It is actually one and two and two and three and then one and three.
But now I want to demonstrate the difference between combinations and permutation and permutation.
It would be A and B and C than B and day b and c and then CNA and cn b.
And since the formula for combinations is not so easy to come up with I will show you the formula right
now.
So that is it.
Now I will at least tell you what that means.
So since we are picking our elements from an we can compute this and factory are divided by and minus
our factory.
Why.
Well that is basically K permutation over n right.
It is the same formula.
But this time we also need to get rid of all the cases where the only difference is in-order and we
will do that by multiplying the down part or fraction with our factorial and actually let me show you
that it works on these examples.
So the number of false subsets that have two elements is free.
Right.
Let's see what this formula gives us.
So in our case an is equal to free because we have free elements in set A and R will be two because
we are picking two numbers.
Now we have all we need to compute this formula on top will be factory all all free and we will divide
that by factorial of and minus R and that is 1.
And then multiply by factorial of are.
So factory 2 now factorial free is 6 because free time sometimes 1 is 6 factorial of one as well.
And factoring of 2 is 2.
So we get six divided by two and that is free.
You might also see this notation and choose k.
So for example in our case it would be free choose to and it is free.
Let's look at another example.
Imagine that you have a group of ten boys and five girls and you want to choose two girls and one boy.
How many options do you have when you don't care about the order.
You can once again pause the video and try to do this on your own.
So let's split it into two task.
First one is pick two girls.
And second is big boy.
So we need to pick two girls from five.
So in first round we are picking from five girls.
Then when we are picking second girl we have four options.
So five times four gives us 20 but now we need to get the rate of all the permutations that are different
only in order and we will do that by dividing that 20 by our factory.
So that has to factor here and that is true.
So the result will be.
Then you have 10 options how to pick two girls from five when you don't care about the order.
Now the second problem is to pick one boy from 10.
And obviously you have 10 options right.
So now since these were subproblems we multiply the results and get the final result.
And that is a hundred.
I hope this makes sense.
So let's move on to combinations with repetition.
So we have been given and objects and we want to select our objects with replacements.
So imagine that and is five.
So we have item one item to all the way up to 5 and then our is free.
So we are picking free elements but this time when we are picking men we will put it back into the set.
So if I pick free as a first element I will cross it right here and then I add it to the end.
Then I can pick for example one.
So I will cross in here and add it to the end and then I can pick free again.
So I will cross it in here and then I will add free again and I'm done.
I have my free aliments So we are actually doing 7 choose free and you already know how to compute this
so it will be 35.
So let me show you an example.
Imagine that we have this question x y.
Plus X 2 plus X free plus x 4 is equal to 16 where all the exits are positive integer values.
How many solutions to this equation exists.
So what we are actually solving.
Imagine that we have 16 balls and we trying to get them into four boxes that is actually what we are
doing.
Let's say that two goes into first two on six goes into second one it goes into third one and none goes
into last one.
And now imagine that instead of boxes there are X variables.
So first says x 1 second this x 2 and so on.
And if you compute that you will see that it is actually 16.
So what we are actually doing we are dividing the 16 balls into four boxes but you can also think of
that as separating these balls.
Right.
So the previous example can look like this.
So this part represents first box.
This part represents second box.
This represents third box and this part represents fourth box.
But now we need to find all the possible positions for our free separators.
Right.
So what we are actually doing we are picking free positions where to put our separators and all the
separators can for example be in front of all these balls.
That would mean x 1 0 x 2 0 x free 0 and x 4 is 16.
So we are actually kind of picking three elements from 16 plus free.
Right.
And we don't care about the order all the elements can be the same.
So the result of this would be 18 choose free.
And that should be eight hundred and sixteen.
So you might notice that we use this formula and a plus or minus one to choose are.
So if I get back to for example we had five items and we were choosing free.
So five plus free minus 1 will be 7 and R is free.
And that is exactly what we got.
So yeah this thing is maybe a bit complicated.
It might take some time for you to get used to it.
So feel free to watch this video again.
There is no shame in that.
And I will see you next time.